# Lecture uhhh.7?

The purpose of a programming language is to help express ideas in code. In that, a programming language performs two related tasks:
    •To provide a set of concepts for the programmer to use when thinking about what can be done. C was designed with this in mind.
    •To be "close to the problem to be solved" so that the concepts of a solution can be expressed directly and concisely. C++'s additions to c were designed with this in mind

C++ is a general purpose programming language emphasizing the design and use of type-rich, lightweight abstractions.

## Streams in C++
C++ streams are a flow of data into and out of our program. This includes terminal input/output and file input/output.
C has a range fo functions for handling both file and terminal IO.
Terminal functions are roughly abstractions of file IO. I.e., you can use the file IO functions to read/write to the terminal. C++ carries this practice on with simplified syntax.

C++'s "stdio" equivalent is `<iostream>`. Within the standard library namespace, denoted with `std::`, the standard terminal output is `cout` and data is written to that using the `<<` operator. For instance, the c++ equivalent to `printf("Hello, world!\n");` would be `std::cout << "Hello, world!\n";`.

Strign types are also defined in the standard library and can be defined with `std::string myString = "An string!";`

Multiple insertion operations using the `<<` operator can be chained in a single statement. And to read from the terminal, just swap the direction of the arrows to `>>`

To write files, we use the `<fstream>` header. Details on this are in the slides.

## Pass-by-reference
This is used to allow a function to modify a variable without creating a copy of it. This, afaik, is similar to passing pointers?

However, passing by reference is handled behind the scenes rather than explicitly defining a passed value as a pointer like in C. The drawbacks of passing pointers in C is that it's inherently unsafe to modify them. Additionally, the pointer needs to be dereferenced every time it is accessed and the memory needs to be managed.

Unlike pointers, <b>You cannot have null references</b>. Every reverence must refer to an variable or object.

In binary code, there may be little difference so there can be no real performance benefit. But to a programmer, a reference syntax is cleaner and doesn't expose us to null pointers or runtime issues.

References are passed using ampersand notation in the function definition. For instance, `void multiplyBy2(int& value);` takes a reference to an integer. When calling this function, the integer can be supplied as normal rather than as a pointer.

However, a literal value cannot be passed by reference. For instance, `multiplyBy2(42);` will not work. 42 is functionally a const, but the function tries to change it.

## Function overloading
We can overload constructors, finctions and operators (ad hoc polymorphism).
As long as the funcitons are distinct and non-ambiguous, the compiler will know which overload to use. To make the they must have different parameters or characteristics (cv qualifiers):
    •`const`. Overloads can specialize for const and non-const
    •`volatile`. This will be covered in a future lecture.

Every function declared must have an implementation provided. Even if they are almost identical and we have to write the same function twice, sometimes we may have to to provide both a constant and non-constant implementation.

C++ class instances include an implicit default constructor, which can be overloaded.

Destructors, however, cannot be overloaded.

You can also add a return type qualifier to modify the return type of a member function. For example `int do_something() const;`

In c++, class member variables are by default private.

If we define *any* constructor, the compiler will not define a default constructor. For instance, if we only declare `B(int value);` as a constructor, the default `B();` constructor will not exist.

From C++11 onwards, we can force the compiler to make a default constructor to initialize member variable sto default values with the decleration `B = default;` alongside the other constructors.

## Operator overloading
This is the ability to define the function of an operator as it applies to specific class or datatype. For instance, the `+` operator is overloaded in the string class, which is how it acts to concatinate strings rather than performing addition.

Operator overloading is a *compile   time polymorphism*

### Free functions
These are functions that are not a member of the class. If we declare a free function as a `friend` function inside the class we can access the class' private variables and members but the class is not in the class namespace.

This can be used for more control of operator overloading.

There are a few operators that we can't overload though:
• The ternary operator
• Dot syntax
• Scope resolution operator
• Sizeof
• typeof

### Comparison oeprators
The return tupe of an operator can be different form the inputs to it. For instance, less than or greater than return bools.

### Streams
We can also override the input and output streams. This is similar to toString() in java.

### prefix/postfix operators
These are `++i` or `i++`. These can be be overloaded the same way as other operators.