# Lecture 6
## Copy semantics

The `const` keyword is used to declare that a value will not change. It can also be used for function parameters to indicate that a value will not be modified by the function. This allows for celarer documentation of the implementation of a function. It is also good practice - breaking this promise will cause a compiler error.

However, pointers have two values: the momory address, and the value stored at that memory address.
• When applied to a variable, const denotes that the value cannot be changed through that specific reference to the point in memory. For instance, `const int val = 42;` means that val, specifically, cannot be reassigned. However, `int *a = &val; *a = 45;` would work and functionally reassign val.

• `int * const val;` denotes that the reference is fixed - val will always point to the same location in memory, however the contents of that location are not fixed.

• `const int *val;` means that the data being pointed to is fixed - the address can be changed, but the dereferenced value cannot.

• `const int * const val;` means both the address and value are fixed.


A common misconception is that the constant will be used by the compiler to optimize the code. This is not true.

### Type declerations as sentences
C followes a spiral rule to convert a delceration to a sentence. Uh. I can't describe this. It's a fucky. Watch the recording. There are several examples of this that are called practice so it might be important. 

Be spammy with consts tbh. Always make things const if they aren't going to change

## Shallow and deep copying
If you declare a struct, put some values in it, then declare a second struct and set it equal to the first, they are boht pointers to the same location in the heap. They point to the same location, so they are two names for the same item of data. Modifying one modifies the other because theyre the same.

This is a shallow copy.

To solve these issues, we write a function to more thoroughly copy the struct. 