# Lecture 5: Electric  booga...five?

We are covering:
•Multidimensional data
•Structs and unions
•Implementing vectors

We can define multidimensional arrays on the stack using multiple square brackets.

An alternative for allocationg memory on the heap though requires careful management of memory.
We can simplify memory management on heap arrays by getting all of the memory at once (i.e. with `malloc(rows*cols*sizeof(int));`) however this prevents us from using square brackets.

(Could we manually set up the array of pointers to index into that array and then do it that way???)

We often treat array syntax as analogous to pointers but they aren't identical.

## Structs and Unions

A struct is a mechanism for packing multiple variables into a single block. It has a fixed size, known at compile time. We must always prefix the name of a struct with the keyword `struct`.
Structs have compiler and OS dependent padding and ordering rules.
Structs are not classes, they do not have functions.
Structs are accessed using dot notation. for instance `myPos.x`

•Advantages
·They help keep correlated variables together
·Local ordering
·There are more, check the slides

An example struct decleration:
`struct MyStruct {`
`    int a;`
`    int b;`
`    float *ptr;`
`};`

Declaring an instance of a struct returns the memory address of the start of the struct.

C is always pass by value, not pass by reference - do not pass them directly into functions. Pass by pointers instead, if you pass directly the struct will be duplicated
(Test this!)

Structs are padded to the system word size. Processors don't access memory byte by byte, byt in blocks called words, so it is more efficient to pad a struct to align with the word size

`#pragma pack(n)` changes this alignment

### Unions
Unions save memory by using the same memory region to store different objects at different times. An instance of a union can one contain one item at any time, byt you can predefine all the possible times of the item stored inside the union. The union will always be the size fo the bigest time, and can be defined similarly to structs (`union myName {...}`)

### Vectors
We want to implement a flexible data structure that can be easily resized, similar to how Vector works in java
Astruct that contains a pointer to an array and the size of an array
MORE IN RECORDING

For instance:
`struct intvector {`
`    int *data;`
`    unsigned int pos;`
`    unsigned int length;`
`}`

We need helper functions to accompany this:
Construct/allocate memory
destruct/deallocate memory
push an item
pop an item
resize the array
print


c and c++ allow us to alias custom types to another type using typedef

we could create an alias longth to int using `typedef int length`

With structs and classes we may simplify our type for use in our code

Watch recording