# Lecture 4 (There was no lecture 3 recording)

If there is a variable `int h2g2 = 42;`
The ampersand operator gives its address `&h2g2`.

Pointer variables store memory addresses. Pointers are refered to by the type that it is pointing to, followed by an asterisk. For instance `int *myPointer;`

## Declarations vs definitions
A declaration is something that tells the compiler the name and type of a property. For example, a function prototype tells the compiler the name, parameters and return type of the function.

A definition tells the compiler the name and type of a property, and allocates some memory somewhere for it. Typically, variable declarations are also difinitions (unless you use the `extern` keyword).

Variables, arrays and strings are all abstractions to memory access

Memory access can be manipulated and addresses stored in pointer variables

We can pass pointers into and return pointers from functions

This was all covered the Lecture 3

## Memory layout of processes
In a typical x86/x86_64 process, the memory is laid out in order divided into several segments. In ascending order of address, these are:
•The Code/Text segment
This contains the program instructions

•Initialized data (.data)
This contains global and static variables with non-zero values, which are created before the program execution

•Uninitialised data (.bss)
This contains global and static variables initialised to zero, or not expelicitly initialised. This is also created before the program is executed.

•Heap
The heap is general purpose memory that can be used by the programmer.

We are responsible for memory management in C. If we request memory on the heap with the allocator function, we must also free the memory when we are done. Memory leaks are when we fail to do this.

•Stack
Variables are created and removed from the stack through execution. The stack is FILO.
The stack pointer points to the next available memory addres sin the stack. When a variable is declared, the stack pointer is returned to allocate the memory to the program and the pointer is increased by the size of the declared variable.
When memory is allocated like this, the memory isn't zero'd and when the memory is freed later, the value isn't cleared.

The stack handles mroe than just variables. When you call a function, the stack contains a stack frame, which contains the return address that the function was called from so that the program knows where to return to when the function is complete, as well as any arguments passed in to the funciton.

Creating a new local scope of any kind does this, not just calling functions. When the scope is exited, the variables are removed in first in last out order.

The size of the stack is fixed and known at execution time. The OS sets the size of the stack space on process creation. This size is OS/hardware dependant, it's typically 8MV, but it doesn't have to be immediately allocated and the os can grow the stack.

The stack is finite in size. Stack frames consume space, and variables can't be removed until the scope they were created in is left. If we make large or too many variables or recurse too many times into functions we can have a stack overflow.

