## Lecture 2 baybee.

This lecture is about basic c sytax, but there are some notes about naming things that may be important.

C files start with directives and macros. Directives start with the hash key ('#'). The C/C++ compiler passes through the code first and tries to make substitutions based on these. This is preprocessing and is done before the code is compiled. This is done automatically as a part of the compilation process.

Comments in C are denoted using '//' for single line comments, or '/* ... */' for multi line comment blocks.

All C programs start with a `main` function, that is automatically called when the program is run. This can take a number of arguments, `int argc` for the number of program arguments and `char *argv[]` for the array of the program arguments.

The main function is an integer and returns an exit status. 0 denotes success, other values are error codes.

C doesn't have easy string concatenation, and relies on format specifiers instead. For instance, `printf("Hello, %c!\n", myVar);` where %c is the specifier for char. There are many format specifiers.

### Compiling code
Code is compiles with gcc.
`gcc eg1.c -o helloworld`
We only compile .c files. Multiple .c files can be compiled at once by including them in the command, and the -o flag can be used to specify the output file.

### Declaring variables
When a variable is declared, it's properties are announced (ie. it's type) and the memory to store that value is set aside, but the variable itself is not initialised. The value of the variable is undefined.

To ensure varables are what you want you need to explicitly set values.

Varables cannot be redeclared/redefined within the same scope, but they can be declared in a lower scope. This is called shadowing a variale and is considered bad practice.

### Scopes
Unlike Java, functions in c do not need to be in classes. Global variables can be declared outside of functions. These are also called external variables.

When a variable is declared outside of a function, the memory is automatically allocated for it. The memory is not zeroed, however, and whatever was in the memory previously is still there.

Global variables or functions are accessible from the point where they are declared, to the end of the file. For instance, if you declared `SomeFunction(void)` later in the file than `main(void)`, `SomeFunction(void)` couldn't be called from `main(void)` because it hasn't been declared by that point in the file.

In C, if you have a function with `(void)` as it's parameters, this declares that it takes no parameters. If you simply leave the parameters empty, then it takes an unspecified number of parameters.

Though variables can be declared and set in the global scope, commands cannot be executed outside of functions.

Local variables are destroyed at the end of the scope they are in, but the memory is not zeroed. This must be done manually if it is needed.

The static keyword in C is very different to java -
·When a variable or function is declared as static in the global scope, this means it is only available in the declaring file. This is analogous to private in java.
·When a variable is declared as static in the local scope, it is not destroyed at the end of the scope - the next time that scope is called, the previously set value will still be present.

### Types
Basic variable types in C are:
·void - No size
Voids are used for functions that take or return nothing.

#### Integers
·char - 8 bits
·short - 16 bits
·int - 32 bits
·long - 64 bits
·unsinged char - 8 bits
·unsigned short - 16 bits
·unsigned int - 32 bits
·unsigned long - 64 bits
Whether the default integer types are signed or unsigned is platform and compiler dependant.

The C standard specifies minimum sizes for these and the relative ordering, but the actual size of the integer types depends on the platform and compiler.

#### Floats
·float - 32 bits
·double - 64 bits
The performance of float types depends on the platform.

### Conditionals
C does not have a boolean type, so integers are used. 0 is evaluated as false, while any other value is evaluated as true.

C has if/elseif/endif statements, and switch/case statements. The rules for requiring a `break;` at the end of each case is the same as for java.

### Loops

In c89, variables must be declared outside of a loop.

C has for, while, and do...while loops.
For loops can loop forever with:
`for (;;) {...}`

### Compilation

Compilation is a multi-step process. This is broadly divided into two stages;
·Compiling - this is preprocessing and compiling each source .c file into separate object .o files.
All functions must be provided for a source file to be compiled.
Even in small-medium projects, recompiling everything in one go is not recommended

·Linking
All of the individual object files are linked into a single large executable file

### Code ordering
In C, code ordering is extremely important. THings cannot be called before they are declared. This means we have to consider code ordering, especially when we are working across multiple files.

Functions can be declared to the compiler first, with the implementation provided later. We do this with a function prototype, which includes the name of the function, the return type, and it's arguments. I.e.
`void theAnswer(int num);`
could be included at the start of a file, with the actual implementation provided at the end.

### Header files
Header files store all the constants, macros, system wide global variables and function prototypes for our programs.
We include headerfiles using
`#include "filename.h"`
System files use angular brackets around the file.

If function prototypes are moved into header files and a c file includes its own header, then the function prototype is no longer required in the c file

The directive `#include "filename.h"` will be replaced with the contents of filename.h a compilation time. This can lead to header files being included multiple times, which causes problems!

### Header guards
This problem is solved with header guards - which are a set of preprocessor directives that prevent the same file from being included multiple times. They act as an if statement for the preprocessor:
`#ifndef EG4_H`
`#define EG4_H`
`...your code here...`
`#endif`

This means that every time the header file is included, the preprocessor will check whether `EG4_H` is defined. If it is not, it will execute the lines inside the if block. The first thing it does is define `EG4_H`, and then everything else is the function prototypes, directives, macros e.t.c you want in the header file. If that file is then called again, when the preprocessor checks if `EG4_H` is defined, it'll see that it is, and therefore skip the if block and not include anything inside it.

Header guards can be named anything, but good practice is to name them after the file.

### Compilation units
Good technique is to make use of compilation units. This means that we want our source files to work as standalone components. This means they can be reused elsewhere, it makes compilation mroe efficient since they do not have to be recompiled when related code is changed, and enables unit testing.
