# Lectureeeee.

## Copy and move operations
We don't need to extend the responsibility of classes if there is another class that can manage it. We want to write the least code possible to make the program work, so we should rely on this where possible.

A class constructor is the first thing to run when in anstance of a class is created - if an instance is created, the initialisation lsit is triggered and then the costructor body.

There are two spedial kinds of constructor in C++:
    •Copy constructors - These constructors take an existing isntance of a class and deep copy its resources into a new instance
    •Move constructors - These constructors take an existing instance of a class and reallocates its resources to the new instance, so that the original instance no longer has them.

### Why do we care about these?
In many systems, objects may be created manually and frequently, like making a vector in C#. When this is done, do we want the data to be created every time? Often, no. Other times, copy constructors are needed because multiple thigs working on the same dataset may create deadlocks.

Often, languages hide these operations. C++ makes these decisions explicit for the developers.

• The default constructor: `A()`
• The copy constructor: `A(const A& other)`
• The move constructor: `A(A&& other)`

The `A&& other` is an "rvalue reference". This allows the contents to me moved into a lvalue without copying, but the specifics aren't important for now. The rvalue reference can only appear on the right hand side of an assignment.

The move constructor doesn't take a constant because it requires the original object be modified.

## Copy and move assignment operators
Sometimes we want tocopy and replace an existing objects resources with those of another. We can overload an assignment operator to implement this. This is done with:
`A& operator=(const A& other) { ... }`

The move assignment operator uses `A& operator=(A&& other) { ... }`

Lin describes moving as "salvaging goods from a sinking ship". The source could be a temporary object.

## Nesting classes
The core of OOP is encapsulation and reusability.0 Classes model semantics and responsibilities of objects and their control of resources.
Semantics can always be simplified down to the "atomic" level. A class we write is composed of data and functions. These members may be simple types (e.g. char) or higher level types like classes (e.g. std::string). These classes can also be reduced to their constituent data.
Ultimately, all of these can be reduced to primitive types. But we use layers of abstraction to make our life easier.

If a type, like a string is implemented, we can use it everywhere else we need it. The class should manage the lifespan of its consitituent data, and if the string is implemented correctly, then when we use it elsewhere we can use it without worrying about using it incorrectly.

### An example
A `Crow` class has a name (A string)
  •That name needs to be allocated in memory when the crow is instantiated
  •It needs to be managed/reallocated if the crow's name is changed
  •It needs to be freed when the crow is deconstructed
Rather than implementing this memory management in our crow class, we can have the `std::string` class handle it. That class already has the constructors, destructors, copy and move semantics. Nesting this inside your class means you get all of these without having to write extra code.

There are some further examples in the slides here.

Member variables of a class are distroyed in reverse order to them being isntantiated

### Deleting specific constructor/operators
In the same way that a constructor can be explicitly set to the default (I.e. `B(const B &other) = default;)`), that constuctor can also be explicitly deleted so that a compiler error is thrown if the user attempts to call it, using `B(const B &other) = delete;`

The various types of constructor are called using:
  • Default construction -  `A x;`
  • Copy construction -     `A y = x;`
  • Copy assignment -       `x = y;`
  • Move construction -     `A z = std::move(y);`
  • Move assignment -       `y = std::move(z);`

The y construction looks like assignment, but it has to be construction because it is when y is first isntantiated.

`std::move()` is a potential red flag, it needs to be used carefully and could indicate underlying errors in code.

After the move assignment is called, the variable it's been called on still exists in scope but has no resources. This is dangerous.

Initialisation lists seem cool.

std::move only works on class types, not in primitive types

## Resource Acquisition Is Initialization (RAII)
RAII is a set of principals that helps with memory and resource management.

When a resource is allocated on the stack, the constructor is automatically called, and when it goes out of scope the destructor is automatically called.

However, when an object is created on the heap this is not the case.

To deal with this, we can use smart pointers.

Also, `std::lock_guard`, `std::unique_lock` and `std::shared_lock` manage mutual exclusion

