Make visualizations self documenting -
•Meaningful and useful explanation
·Title: What does the chart show? What are the key insights?
CHECK SLIDES FOR THE REST

## Strategies for handling complexity
•Interactivity
·Change
·Select
·Navigate
•Views
·Juxtapose
·Layer
•Reduce/increase data
CHECK SLIDES FOR REST

### Juxtapose and coordinate views side-by-side

Pros:
• Moving eyes between views is easier than comparing single changing views
Cons:
• This, however, costs display area

#### Linked highlighting
This is coordinating selectyion and highlighting between multiple views to show how data within a region of one view is distrubuted within another.

Decision@ Link directions. Multi-direction is typically better, but occupies input capability.

#### Tooltips
Pros:
•On demand details at the location
cons:
•Shows one item at a time, no overview

"If you make a rollover or tooltip, assume nobody will see it. If it's important, make it explicit."

#### Data tables
Pros:
• Compact
•Can allow sorting and filtering

Cons:
•Does not use visual perception

This is best used as an auxiliary view to the visualization.

### Showing focus + context in a single view
#### FIsheye technique
THis is magnifying a specific part of the data while keeping it's connection with the context. This distorys the geometry around the border to maintain that conneciton. This impairs length comparisons.

Design decisions:
• Shape (circular, rectangle, comples)
•How many regions can be magnified simultaneously?

#### Overview-details views
One view shoes all items, another shows a subset

Design decisions:
• Navigational link directions. Which viewport can the view be controlled from?
• Visual encoding: same or different?
• Shown attributes: Same or different?

#### Small multiples
A grid of similar charts with the same visual encoding, scale, axes. Each chart shows a different slice of the same dataset. This allows compartison within and across slices. Thes is pwoerful when combined with linked highlighting.

A version of this si word-sezid visualisation. These are basically small multiples withoutspecific axis placed inline with text, to quickly show trends in data.

#### Sceted widgets
Place small vis on control widhets to show the user potential locaitons/attributes to drill down into.

### Layers
This is superimposing multiple layers on the same view
A layer is a set of graphical elements spread out over the whole view
•Users should be able to selectively focus each layer

Design considerations:
•How could users distinguish between layers?
    · visual encoding
•How many layers?
    · More data per layer = fewer layers
•Static or dynamic set of layers

#### Gestale principles
Gestalt: a structure that arises from te background. The whole is grasped before the parts enter the consciousness
Some visual characteristics incline us to perceive obhects as grouped together. Examples of this are continuity and closure

Layering vs juxtaposition
Layers ate faster for local comparison of elements

Layers can be dynamically changed by user itneraction. 

### Partitioning
Also known as facetting
This si divinding data by attributes and showing each part in different views

### Filtering
Pros:
•Easy to implement
•Intuitive

Cons:
•Out of sight, out of mind. User may forget removes elements.

Filtering is starting with everything and removing elements. This is suitable when there is a good overview available.
Querying is starting with nothing and adding elements. This is good for large datasets.

### Aggregation
Derive an element to represent a group of original elements

Pros: Maintain the overview of the dataset

Cons:
CHECK SLIDES
Bin size and bin start can change the shape f the distribution

#### Box plot
THis is some a level stats bullshit.

Box plots dont represent bimodal data well.

#### Hierarchical parallel coordinates
These are pretty


