# Lecture 3

## Attribute types
·Quantatative attributes
Attributes which can be measured. These attributes are ones which are ordered, and on which it is possible to perform athematical operations in some way.

·Ordered attributes
Attributes which can be ordered. 

·Categorical attributes
Attributes which fit into categories. Categorical attributes are not ordered

#### Examples
Dates
·Quantitative
·Sequential

Day of the week
·Quantitative
·Cyclic

Clock time
·Quantitative
·Cyclic

Duration
·Quantitative
·Sequential

(Note: Consider that "time" as an attribute is vague - it could be the clock, it could mean duration, but these are different attribute types)

Weather
·Categorical

Temperature
·Quantitative
·Diverging (In celsius, there is a 0 point which temperatures can be above and below)

5 point response (I.e. strongly disagree to strongly agree)
·Ordinal
·Diverging

City names
·Categorical

Phone Number
·Categorical

Not everything that is numbered is inherently quantative - The ordering of phone numbers has no inherent meaning, taking a phone number and adding 5 to it doesn't produce a meaningful output.

## Visual encoding
Visual encoding is taking data or datapoints and giving a representation to them. We will use two things in visual encoding:

•Marks
These are geometric prinitives that represent items or links

•Channels
These control the appearance of marks based on attributes.

For example: A bar chart uses bars as it's marks, and the channel is the vertical position of the tip of the bar. The data being displayed is encoded in the height of the bar. For a scatter plot, the marks are points, and the channels are the vertical and horizontal positions of the points - data is encoded in both of these dimensions. Additional channels can be added to encode more data, such as the colour of the bar, or the size of the point, to encode more attributed independantly.

Marks can be individual items/notes like points, lines, or areas. Marks can also be used to represent connections or links between multiple items. For instance, the area enclosed by multiple items can be shaded to group those items together, or lines can be used to join separate points.

Channels control the appearance of marks based on attributes. We can change the position, colour, shape, rotation, and size of the marks. Synonyms for channels are; visual channels, visual variables, aesthetics, but the concept is all the same - encoding values in some visual attribute to communicate it more effectively.

We can also use multiple channels to encode a single attribute to convey the information more effectively. For instance, a bar chart would have some value encoded in the height of the bars, but that value could also be encoded in the shading of the bars to make the differences between values more apparent.

Marks also contrain what channels can be used to convey attributes. For instance, when you use line marks you can't use shape as a channel. Or, if you use area marks, width, height, shape and position are all interlocked.

## Visualization quality
We will sue several words to evaluate visualizations:
•Expressiveness
Does the visualization show all of the relaitonships in your data, and *Only* the relationships in the data?

•Effectiveness
This is the use of channels that can be perceived accurately as the task demands. For instance, positioning items on a common scale so they can be easilly compared, is more effective than presenting data on separate scales. Colour saturation is a bad channel because only a few shades of saturation canr eliably be discerned

<b>There is a diagram ordering channels by effectiveness in the slides. It will be on the exam. Learn it.</b>

There are magnitude channels and identity channels, for quantitative and catagorical data respectively. Misusing these channel types can imply a relationship between data which is not present, reducing expressiveness.

•Accuracy
How prcisely we can dell the difference between encoded items. For instance, if we have two very small values encoded in the position channel it is easier to tell them apart than if they were encoded in the luminancy channel.

There is a graph of channel perceptions vs actual physical difference on the slides.

Accuracy is affected by distance between marks, alignment of marks, distractors, and scale/alignment

•Discriminability
How many unique steps can be distinguished. A good visualization needs to choose a channel to convey data which is capable of presenting enough discernible levels of information to convey the information needed.

•Separability
Is our ability to use a channel affected by another one? For instance, position and colour are fully separable, size and colour are slightly less sparable, width and height interfere with eachother more, while the red level of a mark and the green level of a mark interfere with eachother massively.

•Popout
How well to things that don't fit/match with other data points stand out? For instance, a single red point in a field of blue points pops out a lot, but mixing cholour and shape channels if you have blue circles and red squares and are looking for a single red circle there will not be much popout. Popout can be in other channels too, for example shadow direction or shape or size.

There is a good example of change in life expectancy in the slides with pros and cons in the lecture recording.

