# Lecture 5
## Task abstraction example
A graph that plots temperature against relative humidity, filling each location with the perceived humidity, and colour coding bands of how dangerous these temperatures are.

Weather scientists <b>present</b> how perceived temperature changes according to both actual temperature and relative humidity in a non linear manner (<b>feature</b>)

Weather reporters <b>derive</b> the perceived temperature (<b>value</b>)

Caretakers <b>lookup</b> whether the current climate will be dangerous (<b>attribute</b>) to the elderly

For this last task, using the entire chart is unnecessary, there can be a simpler visualization that just shows the relevant value and doesn't display anything else

# And now...
He's making everyone say
`Get it right in black and white`
and says this is *extremely important* because colour is not an effective channel, so should be avoided. If possible, we should try to use other channels than colour, and if we are using colour, we should look at encoding in another channel also.

Colour has 3 channels - luminance, saturation and hue. However, these have separability issues and cannot be used to encode 3 values. Saturation, luminance and transparency are basically inseparable.

Lolour also interacts with the size channel. If your object is very small, it will be less visible unless it is more saturated.

The hue channel has poor discriminability, having 6-7 discrete bins, but luminance has less tham five, saturation has less than 3, and transparency has less than two.

And, the smaller the region is, the fewer bins there are. Basically they get dithered perceptually.

Colour channels also interact with the background and outsine. For instance, the optical illusion of two spota that are the same colour, but one of them being surrounded by shade making it seem brighter because of the way our brains interpret that context.

Giving the shape an outline has a similar effect. Putting a shape on a black background can make it seem slightly bigger than the white background in the example shown.

Rainbow colour is fine for encoding catagorical attributes with few bins - people can name the colours which is useful. But, there is no natural or intuitive order to the rainbow so it is not good for encoding continuous or ordered data.

There are perceptually uniform alternatives to rainbut pallete - viridis and magma pallettes are examples of this.

### How to build a colour map of your own
Start with one attribute of the data that you want to encode. Think whether it is categorical or ordered or quantitative.

If it is catagorical, use the hue channel.
If it is ordinal or quantitative, use either the saturation or luminance channel. Then consider the sequence order. If it is low to high then that's easy. If it is diverging though, then choose a neutral midpoint and then choose different saturations or luminances of different colours for each direction (for example, 0 is white, -1 to -5 are progressively darker reds and +1 to +5 are progressively darker blues.)
If your attribute is cyclic you can use hue.
After one attribute is designed you can do a second, but don't use colour to encode more than two attributes.

A complete example would be, having categorical data encoded in hue, and then having a binary yes/no for each category encoded in saturation of that hue.

#### Use the color oracle tools to simulate different types of colour blindness

## Visualization for data on maps
Maps are not literal, they are projections of the surface of a 3d sphere onto a 2d plane. Because of this, it is not possible for a 2d map to be correct.

The most common map projection is the mercator projection, which distorts size. Locations closer to the poles appear larger than the same location would be if it were closer to the equator. FOr instance, iceland and africa appear to be a similar size in the mercator projection even though africa is aobut 4 times the size of iceland. It is useful because it preserves direction on a small scale.

Properties that are distorted by map projections are:
•Area
•Bearing
•Distance
•Shape

Different projections make trade-offs between different amounts of distortion of these properties.

There are two types of map:
•Base cartography, which is outside of the scope of thsi course
•Thematic cartography, which is base cartography plus some data visualized on the map. This is what we care about.

Slide 27 for this lecture is a diagram of map types with details that we should learn. Slide 28 is pros and cons.

The rest of the lecture is examples of spatial data visualization. Theyre very good examples.

## Reading Assignment!
Sections 10.4 and 6.3