# Lecture 4

Recapping lecture 3 first. Expressiveness and effectiveness.

## Task abstraction
We are abstract commonalities and differences between different tasks in the same or different domains

### High level actions
#### Analyze
•Consume
This includes discovering new knowledge,. The oytcome is generating a new hypotheses or verifying a previously known hypotheses. It also includes presenting or communicating the already known data to a specific audience

•Produce
Annotate - Addition og text or graphics as a new attribute
Record - capture vis as persistant i.e. as screenshots
Derive - Calculating new data based on existing data. For example, a graph showing the difference between two values over time rather than a graph that plots those values independantly

### Mid level actions
#### Searching
If the user knows where to search and what to search for, it is a lookup. If the user knows where to search but not what to lookfor, it is browsing. If the user doesn't know where to search but knows what theyre looking for it's locating. If the user doesn't know where to search or what theyre looking for it's exploring.

### Low level actions
#### Query
•Identify - inspect charactristic(s) of one target
•Compare - multiple targets
•Another one on slides.

### Targets
•All Data
·Trends
·Outliers
·Features

•Attributes
·Distribution
·Dependency
·Correlation
·Similarity

•Network Data
·Topology
·Paths

•Spatial Data
·Shape

Example of how to apply these terms in slide/lecture

## The DOuble Diamond Model

This is a model for solving a problem. It is...hard to describe, look at the slides/lecture for this. The basic idea is that trying out multiple solutions and itterating on all of them means you are more likely to get the best overall solution than just getting the best version of a not very good solution.

