# Another day another data to visualize. :/

Going over homework. These are good examples of exam questions, watch the recording

## Tabletime!
A key is a unique index to look up an item

We can separate, order and align marks using keys

We can superimpose or agregate multiple keys.

### Scatterplots
Scatterplots have no keys. Scatterplots use the position channel, which is very accurate and shows trends easilly, and is scalable to many items.

•Terminology alert!
Corelations are separate to slope. The number for corelation, between 1 and -1 is the reliability fo the correlaiton, not the m in a y=mx+c line

Scatterplots are also good for finding clusters.

•Terminology alert!
Clusters and classes are different! Clusters are groupings of data which are located close to eachother, while classes are predefined categorizations of datapoints.

Scatterplots can sometimes be compressed down to 1d. But this can be hard to read accurately, so it may be an idea to bin those and put them in a histogram. A histogram, however, is sensitive to bin width and can change dramatically in appearance.

### Scatterplot matrices!

A scatter plot matrix is a grid of scatterplots used when there are more than two dimensions. It is a 2x2 grid of separate scatter plots that plot every attribute against every other attribute. There is an illustration in the slides.

We can use three dimensional plots if we want to see correlations in 3 attributes, but depth is not a good channel.

A solution to this is instead of using rectilinear attributes, we can use parallel attributes. And it is occuring to me that markdown files aren't the best for making notes on data visualization because of the, you know...visual aspect of the whole thing. But look at the reording for parallel coordinates. But the tl;dr is apparently; if the lines are parallel to eachother there is strong positive corelation, if the lines all cross at the half way point there is strong negative correlation. This is kinda cool tbf.

There is no algorythm to choose the best order of the attributes though, so the best way to use this is to allow the user to change the order of the attributes to explore different correlations.

• Line chart
Emphasis on trends
Line continutiy allows for many categories

•Bar chart
Recundant encoding - position and bar length reinforce data communciaiton

On a line chart we can also superimpose more ifnormation - line an area around the line to show uncertainty in the data

On a dot chart we can use a line mark to connect the dots to show the difference between comparison points. This is a dumbell chart.

Dont trucate axis! When you use a bar chart, you should start at 0 or you risk exagerating the data because the length channel is misleading. Techniques have been studied to avoid this, but none of them work. If you need to truncate the axis, consider line or dot charts.

### Radial coordinates
Radial axis lose position alighment. Only use these of the data is cyclic.

Coxcomb charts are very pretty but though they encode data in one dimension, they decode in 2 dimensions which magnifies perceived difference in data. There is inseparability between the width and height of the data.

Pie charts are bad when there are lots of attributes. A normalized stack bar chart is good. They have high information density and dont have the problems fo radial var charts

AN alternative is an icon chart. Look this up for a reminder, or check the recordings. Icon charts are very good when looking at individuals. The influence of the context of icon charts is not yet fully understood by visualization researchers.

A heatmap allows us to visualize two keys on the horizontal or vertical axis. However, as these use the colour channel to encode data, the negatives of the colour channel apply.

