# Lecture tuesday
## The singleton pattern
There are weirdos on the internet who thinks there are wrong ways to do things. Our job is to ignore them. People who have the time to complain about pattern usage probablya rent shipping actual code and therefore we should disregard their opinion.

More importantly is understanding how to make decisions. There are lots of choices and very few black and white right/wrong situations.

tl;dr the singleton pattern is Fine Actually

### Static classes and properties
A static abstract class is a class that is never isntantiated, it just exists abstractly. By making the class static, you also need to make everything within the class static. A static abstract class can be used to maintain a list of objects that have been instantiated, if you want to keep track of how many of that object exist.

The example being given is...basically how I did tail management.

Another way of keeping track of objects though, is;
Instead of creating a whole new class whos only job is counting the number of the thing, you can do it with static variables in the class itself. For instance, in the snake game I could have a static list of tail segments in the tail segment class and manage it that way. Doing this means not having to do any checks on whether the item is already in the list.

Sean always does it the second way but acknowledges there may be a hypothetical reason to do it the first way.

The second way can also cause a lot of bugs if it's done improperly.

### Now, the actual singleton pattern
A static class isn't a singleton. It's abstract, it's not isntantiated so it doesn't exist in memory as an object.

A singleton, on the other hand, is instantiated, it's an object, so it exists in memory. However, only one of them exists and it can be accessed from any point in code.

With singletons, it's very easy to create accidental coupling that you don't explicitly design in.

Singletons are unpopular because of this, but sometimes there is a reason to use them.

#### Why we ignore internet weirdos who ahte singletons
There are some situations where a class doesn't work if there's more than one instance of it.
An example of this is file IO - you don't want to write multiple files to different places simultaneously. Sometimes people will have mechanical hdds and this will be slow and cause drive thrashing.

If a class can only be instantiated once, we need global access to that instance. The singleton pattern is complete when we have one instance and global access to that instance.

A common use case for a singleton is the class that talks to the steam api, or nintendos api, or anyone elses api.

One way to enforce a singleton is using a static reference to the singleton. By making a public static reference to the instantiated object, the Awake() method can check if that already exists when it's created. The first one sets the static reference to itself, and any subsequent instances see that the static class is already set and destroy themselves.

Another good use for this is game saving/loading.

### Scene changes
When unity loads a scene, it destroys everything in the current scene then loads the next one.

This is a problem for singletons. To prevent this, call the `DontDestroyOnLoad()` method from the object. This should be done on creation, it seems to set a flag.

This also means that for testing you can stick a singleton into every scene in game and it won't cause problems because it is enforced that there is only one rather than relying in going through the initial menu where it may be first isntantiated every time you want to test.

## The service locator pattern
The service lcoator pattern allows us to create a general class, like a game api manager or something, and then at runtime it can grab the correct singleton and instantiate it. For instance, the game could detect the platform it's running on at runtime, and based on that instantiate the steam api singleton or the nintendo api singleton or whatever.

### It's inversion of control time baybee
Unity is a framework, like a web framework. So it does inversion of control.

The service locator pattern is a specific example of a version of control approach

*The Service Locator Pattern provides a global point of access to a service like leaderboard APIs or file IO, without coupling users to the concrete class that implements it.*
