# Lecture 3

"Good practice" is a messy concept at the level we're now at - it's less about following predefined conventions and practices and more about justifying the choices you've made.

The first coursework is a code review for this reason - to give and receive critical feedback on choices being made.

There will be roughly one programming pattern taught per lecture.

## Decoupling patterns

Writing code to do what you want isn't that difficult. With enough time, anything is doable. What's difficult is writing code that's easy tadapt when what you want it to do changes. In games, we want to chonge things frequently, so we need to write cone that is easy to change. A powerful tool for making changing our code easier is decoupling.

An example being given is HiFi Rush, which is a rhythm game where everything is to the beat. Cutscenes, animations, everything are connected. The goal is to be able to write pieces of code that can do this, without being affected by or relient on other pieces of code.

### Component pattern
Components allow a single entity to span multiple domains (I.e. sound, physics, controller input).

#### Designing a player class
For example, you decide to design a class that defines the player entity within the game engine.

·What data does it need?
Health
Score
Position
Velocity
Collison box
Sprites and animation states
Size of sprites
Co troller input
Sound files and volumes

·What logical behaviour do we need?
Controls
Update positon based on velocity
Update velocity based on forces
update forces and velocity based on player input
Detect collisions and respond
Playing sounds when needed
Updating the position fo the sprite to be rendered

So, being inexperienced, you may decide to put all of this in the player class.

Then a few months later, you decide to add an invisibility powerup. You do this with:
`if (player collides with invisibility powerup) {`
`    setRenderState(invisible);`
`    Invoke(setRenderStateVisible(), powerupLength);`
`}`

It works, you push the patch
A few days later, you get a bug report saying sound effects no longer work when you're invisible.

The problem may be somewhere deep, buried in the 4000 line player class. Perhaps you've used the "invisible" state to also prevent sounds from being played when the player is offscreen. This is coupling, this code affects eachother.

Even trivial changes in large classes can cause unforseen consequences. They collect bugs faster than they collect features and you end up writing hacks to avoid touching that code.

The solution to this is <b>components.</b> This means, we split our class into a series of separate components that are each responsible for their own domain. For instance, we will have a physics component, a sound component, a rendering component e.t.c. This means there is no "player" class, but a set of classes controlling different domains. Our player class then becomes a container for these components. Each game objects becomes an array of components.

These components are now decoupled. There will be communication between components, but these can be controlled through encapsulation. There won't be any accidental communication like in the example above.

This also means that specialists can focus on their specific components without worrying about what anyone else is doing.

It also prevents merge conflicts by allowing people to work this way.

It also makes the whole thing much more modular, allowing you to plug different components in as needed.

You could even take the player entity, remove the input component and add an ai component instead and create an npc without rewriting anything else.

This can't be achieved with inheritance wothout some inwieldy and dangerous class structure.

### The Component Pattern
A single entity spans multiple domains. To keep the domains isolated, the code for each is placed in tis own component class. The entity is reduced to a simple container of components.

### When to Use Components
Components (and the containers for them) are usually a basic functionality in whichever engine you are using - you are left with the task of designing your own components

You should think about splitting a class into components when:
·That class is touching multiple domains directly and you want them decouples
·That class is getting massive and hard to work with
·You want to reuse some fo the code in that class for other entities, but inheritence doesn't let you precisely pick whihc parts

### C# concepts important for this
·Inheritance
It's inheritance. You know how do inherit.

·Generics
Generics, or template classes, introduce the concept of type parameters. This makes it possible to design classes and methods that do not require the specification of one or more types until it is instantiated. In most cases, you'll be using generics other people have designed, they are usually engine/system level stuff.
For example, `List GenericList = new List<T>();`
The type that the list works on isn't defined in the class, it's defined when it's instantiated.

### Components in Unity
Unity is a component based game engine. You create entities called GameObjects which are the containers for the components.

One of the most difficult things that components introduce is the need to communicate between components. In Unity, this is the responsibility of the GameObject class.

A component cannot be instantiated on it's own. A component cannot exist unless it is attached to a game object. Because every component must be attached to a game object, every component has a reference to the game object it's connected to, and every game object has a reference to all the components belonging to it.

Because of this referencing, components on a game object can get references to other components on the same object.

`gameObject.GetComponent<ComponentType>()`

If there are multiple components of the same type, this will return the first one. There are methods to get others, check the documentation.

You should never assume that a gameObject has the compnent you want, you should either handle the case where it's missing or require it.

You can require gameObjects have a particular type of component attached when adding a different component by putting `[RequireComponent(typeof(ComponentName))]` in the component file, outside of the class decleration.

Bugs should cause compile errors - enforcing these requirements makes that happen. If bugs do not cause compile errors, they might make i tinto the final game

#### Notes about GetComponent
GetComponent iterates through the list of all components on the object serially, checking their types until it finds a match. This can perform poorly, especially if performed multiple times or on every update. Ideally, this should only be called once per game object per component needed.

Every component in unity has to inherit the MonoBehaviour class