# Lecture 2
Opens with mroe administrative stuff, telling off slido trolls

## This is a C# intro lecture
The goal of this lecture is to highlight the features available, but not necessarily to develop a comprehensive understanding of them.

C# is a type-safe OOL run on the .net framework. It is similar syntactically to java.

It simplifies a lot of the complexities of C++ and provides powerful features like nullable types, enumerations, delegates, and lambda expressions. This costs performance, but allows development to happen faster.

It also features language integrated queries (LINQ). This similar to eloquent expressions in webaps.

C# uses a just in tiem compiler, which compiles everything to a common language, which then gets run in real time.

You can compile to C++. That seems quite advanced though, maybe we'll cover it later, idk.

## The Basics

### Enumerations
Enumerations are types that you define that have a certain number of types it can be. It acts as a mapping between a word and a value. For insuance:
`public enum GameModifier {`
`    None = 0,`
`    MoonGrav = 1,`
`    UpsideDown = 2,`
`}`

For instance you could use `GameModifier.None`, and you can cast it as an integer and it will return 0.

You could use just pure integers, however if you change the order of the integers or remove one mode that can break things. Using enums avoids that.

Enums are good for use with switch/case statements.

### Basic class definition

`class ClassName {`
    
`}`

Conventions are, public variables start with uppercase, private are lowercase. But consistency within the project is more important than specific conventions. CamelCase is usually used.

Classes are reference types. Reference types are variables that point to a place in memory rather than a value (Basically pointers?). For instance, if you have a `Customer` class then declaring `Customer object2;` creates a null reference, there is no object at the location yet. Objects need to be created with `new Customer();`, and assigning one variable to another like `object2 = object;` doesn't create a new copy, it creates a second reference to the same location in memory.

### Encapsulation
This is controling how someone else uses your class; basically, it's deciding whether things are public or private. It's similar to thinking of your class having an API.

For our games we are, in essence, writing our own engine that runs on top of the unity engine. When we're writing, we should be thinking "What if someone else wants to come and run code to interface with my code?" It's important to think that you in a month is a different person from you now - you will not remember inte intricacies of how you did this after some amount of time, so simplification of interfacing through abstraction is important.

Sean is using Health as an example, look at the recording for this example.

Encapsulations means that if you have a bug with a certain thing, you know the bug is going to be inside the encapsulated class for that thing.

C# has cool getters and setters. For instance you can say;
`public int Health {`
`   get; Private set;`
`}`
And that automatically makes the getter public and setter private for the variable Health. This is called Syntactic Sugar.

### Static Members
Static parameters and methods can be retrieved without instantiating a class.

These are very powervul, but should be used responsible. They can sometimes be used as a global variable, but this introduces lots of coupling.

These do not have memory allocated when the class is instantiated, they have memory allocated immediately.

#### Constructors and destrictors
In C#, constructors are defined with `public MyClass() {...}` and destructors are defined with `~MyClass() {...}`. Destructors are useful for example, if there is a static variable tracking the number of active instances of a class the constructor may increment a static integer and then the destructor would decrement it.

In unity you typically wouldn't use the destructor of the c# class - when a game object is destroyed in unity there is a special funciton that is called when a game object is destroyed that we would typically use instead.

### Method overloading
C# lets you create more than one method with the same name, but different parameters. It chooses the correct version based on the parameters supplied by the calling method. This, however, reduces performance.

Optimized code doesn't make many assumptions.

This is also an example of polymorphism. Polymorphism allows a class or object or method to appear to change from the outside.

Something similar can be achieved using optional parameters.

You should always choose the option of these that is the most simple/results in the fewest lines of code.

There's no easy right or wrong answer, it's all vibes baybee.

### Inheritance
This is when there are base classes and classes that inherit from them.

Inheritance sotps you from having to rewrite code.

In C#, inheritance is denoted with a `:`
For example:
`class Sphere : Shape`
This says that Sphere inherits from the class Shape

Subclass methods can override superclass methods with the `override` keyword. For instance, `public override double Area() {...}`. A class that can be overwritten is declared with the `virtual` keyword.

`public` variables are universally accessible
`protected` variables are available to the inherited class and the superclass
`private` variables are only available in the class they are declared in and not in any inheriting classes.

