# The Trinity of Patterns

• The game loop
This is the loop that processes user input without blocking, updates the game state, and renders teh game.
• The update method
The game world maintains a collection of objests. Each object implements an update method that simulates one frame of the onjects behaviour. Teh game updates every object
• The component pattern
A single entity spans multiple domatins (visual, sound, physics e.t.c). To keep the domains isolated, the code for each domain is separated so we have a game object that does very little but interfaces with these separate components.

## The trinity in the context of unity
Intities in unity are GameObjects
GameObjects are loaded into a scene, the engine maintains a list of all gameObjects and updates them each frame
The scene is essentially a list of GameObjects
The GameObjects are simply containers for compnents, which are c# classes which derive the MonoBehaviour class
The GameObject contains a method SendMessage which is used to call a specified method on every MonoBehaviour. 

He's drawing a diagram on the board but it's not important/needed, the description is clear enough without it.

There's an illustrated example of this in the recording.

Google "MonoBehaviour Lifecycle"

•Awake
The sorts of things that should go in Awake are initialization that doesn't involve other objects in the game world. Anything that only relies on itself can go in there.

•OnEnable
This happens when a omponent is enabled. The difference between this and Awake is OnEnable is called every time the class is enabled in the editor, while Awake is called only the first time the object is instantiated. OnEnable is typically used for subscribing to events or listening to things.

•Reset
Reset only happens in the editor, and is called when a script is dragged onto an object. Probably dont worry about this one.

•Start
This is only called once for a given script. Initialization that goes in here should be things that depend on other GameObjects. If you need another object initialized to do something in this object, the code for that should go in here.

After initializing, we enter the game loop:
•FixedUpdate
This happens at the start of every physics frame, not every render frame.

•Physics stuff
Dont worry bout it

•OnTriggerXXX

•OnCollisionXXX

Triggers happen before collisions.

•yield WaitForFixedUpdate
This is a way of pausing until the fixedupdate interval has passed.

Then there are input events
•OnMouseXXX
These are events that process input

Then theres the game logic (This isn't really game logic, that could be misleading as a name)
•Update
This is the update that happens as fast as possible

There are then a bunch of yields for different coroutines

Then there's an internal animation update

•LateUpdate
This is the same as Update, but it happens at the end of the frame rather than the start of the frame. This is useful for, for instance, if you want a camera to move you might be moving it based on the position of everything in the screen space. This ensures that the camera is accurate, because the camera can be moved to the right place for the right frame rather than a frame behind. Apparently not doing this feels wrong.

### The Game Loop Pattern
