# Another day another videos gideos

Demo time baybee

It is to do a leaderboards!

Devil Daggers, when scores are uploaded to the scoreboard, a full replay of that players session is also uploaded. This is not a video, this is a recording of the players actions.

Oh its the `COMMAND PATTERN` time!

## Interfaces in c#
An interface is something you define which contains a set of method definitions. Interface names typically begin with a capital I.

Interfaces are kiiindof like inheritance but where every method has to be overwritten?

These help you write more general code. If you have an interface `IAttackable` with a method `AttackedByPlayer`, this can be implemented by many different classes to define many different behaviours for being attacked, but you know that they will all have this `AttackedByPlayer` method.

In C#, interface implementations are shown the same way as class inheritance.

## Generic lists
This is just a list with a type declared. Like, `List<int>`. You know how to do this.

C# has language integrated queries. This is database queries using object oriented notation, similar to laravel.

There are also generic Dictionaries, which can be useful. This allows mappings between pairs of values. I.e. `Dictionary<int, GameObject>` would allow lookups for a gameobject using an associated int. Thats a bad use but you get the idea.

## The command pattern
The formal definition: Encapsulate a request as an object, thereby letting users parameterize clients with different requests, queue, or log requests, and support undoable operations.

### What is a command?
A command is a reified method call.
Reification is the process of making something abstract into explicit data (an instantiated object. A class is abstract, an object is explicit).

This means that we are taking a method call, and wrapping it in an object.

By turning method calls into commands in objects, into actual data stored in memory, we can record them to a hard drive, and we can replay them later.

An example: input
You may have hard-coded `if (ButtonA.pressed) jump();`
This is cool and all but what if you want to remap buttons at runtime?
To do this, we need something like `if (JumpButton.pressed) jump();` and then be able to connect `JumpButton` to a physical button later.

To do this, we apparently need commands as data.

The first thing to do is define an abstract class that every command derives from. 

There is an illustrated example of this in the slides/recording.

When a command is created, it is instantiated every time that action is needed. The new object can then be added to an array to create a list of commands.