# Time in video games

Note: Nullable types in C# are denoted with a "?" after the type decleration. E.g.
`double? pi = 3.142;`
`char? letter = 'a';`
This means that the variables can be null, and are expected to sometimes be null.

The question mark is syntactic sugat for `Nullable<T>` where T is the type being declared. This means that the variable now has a bunch of functions attached that can be used to check whether it is null.
For instance, `letter.HasValue` will return true or false depending on whether it is null.

`int?` and `int` are not the same type, and cannot be directly compared. To compare them, we need to get the underlying type from the nullable first.

## The journey to interactivity
### Batch programs
Computer programs were originally not interactive. These non interactive programs are batch mode programs, examples include git, where you run it then wait for it to finish, or a video transcoder, where you run it and wait for it to finish. These are extremely hard to debug, because you may not know they are broken until you are examining the output.

Now we tend to do things quickly, we will write something quick and likely broken, then test it quickly, then fix it on the fly.

### Event loops
The first interactive programs were text adventures. In these you would get some text output and then get a question. These are basically digital choose your own adventure books.

If we want to implement a text adventure, it's reasonably simple. We can set up an infinite loop in our program to make it wait for user input. Within the loop we can check for user input, and if it's not empty, send it to some function to handle it.

Adventure is a stripped down version of an event loop which drives most modern graphical UI applications.
Event driven applications do nothing until it gets an input. It's blocking itself while waiting for that input.

`while (appRunning) {`
`    UserInputEvent? inputEvent - getInputEvent();`
`    if (inputEvent.HasValue) dispatchEvent(inputEvent);`
`}`

### Game loops
Unlike most event driven software, games keep doing things while the user isn't providing input. The program doesn't block itself waiting for input, it keeps working while the player is not inputting anything.

<b>The game loop processes the user input, but does not wait for it</b>

This means the loop for the game is simpler
`while (gameRunning) {`
`    processInput();`
`    update();`
`    render();`
`}`

Running this as is, though, means that the amount of time each loop takes is not defined, and will vary. Every time the simulation moves forward by a tick, some amount of real time passes. The concept of FPS comes from this.

IF the loop is running uncapped, how quickly that loop runs is determined by two things:
•The amount of work to be done
•The speed of the platform running the game. Not just hardware, bot the OS, other software and scheduling also impact this.

For early video games, the framerate was fixed. Because hardware was standardized and everyone was running on the same platform everyone knew how many frames they'd get every second.

We can't guarantee the universality of hardware anymore, so this needs to be accounted for.

The game loop, therefore, also has to track the passage of time to control the rate of gameplay. Like components, the game loop is a core part of any engine. Unless you're writing your own engine, you won't need to write this, but you do need to understand it. Most of the code with game loops is straightforward, it's the concepts that are trickier.

## Achieving Framerate Independence
We want our game to feel the same regardless of what machine it's on. There are several ways to do this;
1. Setting a maximum framerate. This is easilly implemented, by just getting the current time at the start of the loop, and then at the end of the loop sleeping for however long is supposed to be left for the remaining frame. A problem with this, though, is it only handles things going too fast.

2. Handling variable frame rates. Every time the game loop updates, a certain amount of real world time has passed. The goal of this approach is to make those as close to equal as possible. Rather than moving the player a set distance, there will be a series of forces acting on the player and the update can take in the amount of time elapsed between frames, and use that to move the player the correct distance using basic equations of motion.
A drawback with this approach is that it applies a set force for an entire frame. For instance, if a player jumps and has an impulse applied to her avatar, that acceleration may be continuously applied for an entire frame, meaning that if the frame rate is lower, the player can in effect jump higher.
To address this, we should run the physics at a fixed framerate, and allow the rendering framerate to vary. There is pseudocode for this in the slides.

## Update methods
Ideally, every game object should have tis own update method, and the update loop cycles through and executed all of these update methods. Do do this in unity, each monobehaviour has two kinds of update methods - an update method for rendering and a fixedupdate method for physics. These are what you edit and override.
These updates are called sequentially, and the ordering of them is not reliable - so updates should not rely on being executed in order